[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: One of
the missions of my own career
is to help people
become more comfortable
with the innately scary
things in life, such as death.
The more knowledge we
have, the more experience
with the subject,
the less we fear it.
Today's guest, Dan Drasin,
has done a wonderful job
of demystifying the natural
process of transitioning
to a less dense reality when
this incarnation is finished.
And Dan, thank you so
much for joining us here.
I haven't seen you
since I met you--
20 years ago.
Who'd have thought we'd be here
sitting across from each other.
I met you in a
strange circumstance,
but we very loosely stayed
in touch through the years.
And I just love what
you've been doing.
>>DANIEL DRASIN:
Well, thank you.
Likewise.
I really admire the
work that you've
been doing over the
years, and I really
appreciate the invitation
to be with you today.
>>REGINA: Well,
you're most welcome.
First of all, I have
to tell the audience
you are going to be
dazzled by these film clips
that you're going to hear.
So let's start more with
your innate interest
from the beginning,
which is you're
very interested in
understanding that life
is about consciousness.
It's about frequency.
It's not about this meatsuit,
as some say, that we're wearing.
And that has put you on an
amazing path as a filmmaker
and producer of putting together
some films that actually prove
the existence of the
afterlife-- physically
proved the existence
of the afterlife,
and everyone loves these films.
But I want to start more with
your own ideas on consciousness
and why you decided to
write this particular book.
>>DRASIN: Well, I'm not
quite sure how far back it
goes, but probably to my
early childhood, when I became
aware of having precognitive
dreams, dreams that would,
in some sense, come
true shortly afterwards,
I didn't understand this, but
it gave me an important clue
that in the theater of life,
stuff goes on backstage.
There are aspects to reality
that are not necessarily
reflected in the materialistic--
in the physical world
that we believe we
inhabit exclusively.
So this took the form
of an abiding interest
in various things
that our culture
considered to be
outside the norm,
became very involved in UFO
research over the years,
starting, actually, way
back in the early days
when it was not a
controversial topic.
>>REGINA: Would you
explain that again?
>>DRASIN: Well, back in--
>>REGINA: What days-- what
era are you talking about?
>>DRASIN: I'm talking
about the 1940s and '50S
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
Yes.
>>DRASIN: I'm an old guy.
I was born in '42.
So I don't quite remember
Roswell, but, at that time,
I do remember listening to a
radio broadcast every evening,
a mainstream New
York news commentator
named Frank Edwards,
and he would give UFO
sighting and landing
reports, which
were a perfectly acceptable
realm of discussion
at that time--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DRASIN: --before the curtain
came down in the 1950s.
And it became an
object of ridicule.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DRASIN: So I was very
intrigued with that.
And that was, for me,
another example of what
goes on backstage.
Actually, as you're
talking about that,
I remember as a news
anchor in the early 1980s,
we would have this stuff
come across the wire,
across writers and such AP,
where there had been a sighting
and the police were called,
and the whole town was
aware of what had gone on.
And I was always warned, no.
I tried to write stories on it.
They always told me we don't
do that, toss them out.
And so, they never made it on.
And that was part
of that repression
you're talking about.
It's not as though
it's not happening,
and it's not as though the
news stations don't know.
They won't allow you
to know, us to know.
So, continue on.
>>DRASIN: Yeah,
and of course, we
know that's going
on today as well.
There's this whole battle
between the disclosure elements
in the armed forces now as well
and the old guard as it were.
And those of us who are
really interested in bringing
the hidden, together
with the obvious,
are following this
very, very closely.
And I think the question
of a so-called afterlife
is part of this bigger
picture of disclosure.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
In your book, "The New
Science of the Afterlife,"
which I loved because you
get right to the point.
But I love the fact
you're so in the face
with some of the
statements you made.
And in fact, I'm going to
bring a couple of them up.
I was writing my
little notes-- love it.
Because you just don't
put up with fools anymore.
You reach that point in life.
And basically, you're
saying the big block
to our understanding
of the nature of life
and reality has been
scientific materialism.
At the same time, you're
using a materialistic approach
because that's where we live.
We live in that world.
You're using that to help
us understand the invisible.
>>DRASIN: Well,
yes, I think it's
important to bring in as
much physical evidence
of the metaphysical as
we can get our hands on.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DRASIN: Instrumental
transcommunication
is one aspect of that.
That is communication
from the other side
through modern electronics.
But anything that
brings the unfamiliar
into the realm of the
familiar is a bridge builder--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DRASIN: --for
people's awareness.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and those
are the two documentaries
that are going to be
focusing on in a little bit,
calling Earth, which is
that technology, and then
the famous "Scole.
The Afterlife
Experiment" is what
you call the video,
but the famous Scole
experiments out of England,
which were just phenomenal.
You did a great job on that.
So let's look back--
>>DRASIN: I want to give
credit to my co-producer,
Tim Coleman, who worked with me
on these documentaries, which
we started back in the early
2000s, took us over 10 years
to produce these.
And anyway, I hope--
>>REGINA: Well, they're
very carefully done.
I mean, you have great
examples of this phenomena
which we're going to be showing
the audience in a little bit.
So basically, what you're
talking about in the book
is to begin using
our own discernment.
Because, as you say, materialism
became its own religion
that could not be questioned.
And a lot of people
watching this, when they're
trying to talk to their
friends and their family,
will be given a bit
of the cold shoulder,
made fun of, because
they dare paint outside
of the materialism color box.
>>DRASIN: Or worse.
>>REGINA: Or worse.
>>DRASIN: People
have been committed
to psychiatric institutions,
ostracized by their families,
so on.
>>REGINA: Historically,
they have been put away.
>>DRASIN: And it's
still going on.
I've met people to whom this
has occurred in recent decades.
It's almost as if we're still
at the tail end of the Middle
Ages, fighting the advent
of a coming enlightenment
as it were.
And this is beginning to
change now, of course.
>>REGINA: It is
beginning to change.
And as you call it, it's
been the worship of--
and explain this because
I love it-- the worship
of the building blocks, right?
>>DRASIN: The worship
of building blocks.
Yeah.
If you look into
materialistic science,
which is only one science.
Because science is just
a method of inquiry.
It's not wedded to a
materialistic approach
necessarily.
But it often is.
And we find the leading
edge of physics going on,
at least, 100 years,
has been looking
at smaller and smaller
particles, and the particles
that make up the
smaller particles,
and the ones that make
up those particles.
And hopefully, they'll find
the real god particle one day,
and then what?
>>REGINA: And then what?
Which is pure consciousness.
>>DRASIN: But they
don't go that far.
>>REGINA: No, they
will never go that far.
>>DRASIN: And even quantum
physics, which is now
about 100 years
old, a century old,
they had to label it quantum
mechanics to get it acceptable.
>>REGINA: That's true.
You're right.
They had to do that.
>>DRASIN: And that's what really
began to push the envelope away
from a solid building block
reference in connection
with what we call reality.
And it's interesting that
when you ask a skeptic
what reality is or what
I call a pseudo skeptic--
>>REGINA: Yeah, I was
going to get into that.
We'll get into that.
>>DRASIN: They'll always
pound their fist on the table
and say, this is reality, right?
The physical.
But even the physical
plane is not just solid.
Our bodies are what
percent water, right?
There's liquids, there's
gases, there's plasmas.
So what we take to be
physical is not physical,
quote, unquote, "physical
or the physical plane."
>>REGINA: It's
purely non-physical.
If you look at it on an atomic
level, there's nothing here.
>>DRASIN: Right.
Right.
>>REGINA: We're a perception.
>>DRASIN: Exactly.
Exactly.
And this gets into the question,
when we speak of the afterlife,
we use the term the veil, right?
What's the veil?
In my book, I try to make a case
for the veil being our senses.
Our senses are tuned to a very,
very narrow band of reality.
We take that to be all there is.
Now we know that you and I
are sitting here right now
have tens of thousands of
radio and television broadcasts
and wireless communications
going through this space
and through our
bodies as we speak,
but they don't exist,
unless we have a device that
resonates with it.
I think that's a model
for our physical senses
versus what we call
the greater reality.
>>REGINA: I agree with that.
And you wrote here--
and I wrote down
a couple of the things you
said is that materialism
is an assumption about reality.
It's just an
assumption, and it's
supposed to be
about open inquiry
without knowing the
answers or outcomes.
And that's what science seems
to be most afraid of-- is not
having the answer.
>>DRASIN: Well, I wouldn't
say it's science so much,
but the scientific and
academic establishment.
>>REGINA: Yes, that's a fair
way to say it, of course.
>>DRASIN: Which, in some
ways-- and I'm sorry for it
because institutions often
have to maintain, at least,
a somewhat conservative
standpoint.
>>REGINA: But to
completely stomp
out potentials is not cool.
>>DRASIN: Right.
That's crossing a line.
I mean, you've probably
familiar with the story
of John Mack, who was a
professor of psychiatry
at Harvard, almost lost his
tenure there because he was
investigating UFO abductions.
And ultimately, they
couldn't kick him out
because he followed
proper scientific protocol
all the way.
>>REGINA: Yes, that's
a good example.
>>DRASIN: And this
is where science
and institutional
inertia butt heads.
And in our society,
it's inevitable,
there's going to
be some of that.
But I think it's time
to shift gears now.
>>REGINA: I think it is, too,
and the work you're doing
is really moving us toward that.
>>DRASIN: I hope so.
I hope so.
I think that
particularly in our time,
with so many stresses and
so much loss of life as well
in the world, that we do need to
shift our perspective on death
.
I use the term
afterlife very loosely.
Because I think it's
somewhat misleading.
Actually, the longest
chapter in my book
is about language
and how language
influences our take on reality.
And I try to have some
fun with that as well.
Afterlife presupposes
that consciousness
is created in the body and then
somehow continues afterwards.
And I don't think
it works that way.
I think we've been here.
The self, the inner being
has been here forever.
And we take on these bodies
and these human lives
for whatever purposes that we,
as individuals and as groups,
may choose.
And then we pass on
to the next phase.
And until we start understanding
that as a flow pattern
rather than a series of
hard-edged comings and goings
as it were, I think
we're going to be stuck
in some very old patterns.
It's a dark age, in my opinion,
that we've been stuck in.
>>REGINA: I agree.
And when you're
talking about death,
there's been so much death.
And there's going to be more.
I mean, I think the
thing we went through
over the last few
years is not done.
I think this is going to happen
a couple more times anyway.
So one thing that a channeler
that we talked to here,
named Lee Harris, his group
are called the Z's, and they're
very pragmatic.
And I was chatting
with them recently.
And they said, the
problem is humans
are so sentimental
about death, when
it's just another
transition you've
all been through so
many times and will
be going through so many more.
And so to get us over that
fear of the ego identity
not existing any longer,
that's the real catch
is the fear that we
don't matter and that we
won't be remembered as though we
were never here to begin with.
>>DRASIN: Well,
that's a good point.
>>REGINA: And I think that's
mostly what people fear,
not understanding.
This story goes on and on.
You've already been through
so many of these iterations.
So let's talk--
>>DRASIN: And one
other point about time.
One thing that I discovered
almost by accident, not too
long ago, was the
nature of eternity.
Eternity is not merely an
infinite extension of time.
This is a very tricky one.
>>REGINA: That is
so-- explain it.
>>DRASIN: I'm not sure it can be
explained but only experienced,
but I can talk about it.
This experience occurred
to me quite unexpectedly
while I was watching a YouTube
video of a channeled session
with a young boy who had taken
his life, a Skype session
between him through a
medium and his mother.
And without going
into a lot of detail,
just watching this
interaction, I
was suddenly brought into
the space of what I think
I can only define as eternity.
It lasted in objective time.
It lasted about
less than a minute.
But during that time, I
realized, oh, my god, eternity
is not just an infinite
extension of what we call time.
It is totally open ended.
And our human minds
have trouble wrapping
it-- wrapping themselves
around anything that doesn't
have beginnings and endings.
>>REGINA: Well, that's true.
We live in a very linear
dimension of time.
>>DRASIN: And it's
divided up incrementally.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DRASIN: One of the interesting
things about the new James Webb
Space Telescope is
that it has brought out
of the woodwork, the
cosmologists who are loosely
labeled the eternalists.
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
>>DRASIN: Which I
was really quite
unaware of until recently.
>>REGINA: That's fascinating.
>>DRASIN: Our cosmologists who
have proposed that there never
was a beginning and
never will be an ending.
And that's really hard for our--
>>REGINA: It's hard for us
to get our minds around.
>>DRASIN: The point
is that we are,
I think in the process
of understanding
what we call time in a new way.
And that, obviously,
encompasses questions
of birth, life, and death.
Because that's
something-- that's a game
we're all playing in
one way or another.
>>REGINA: So you're
capturing part of it
in your films, which we'll
show in just a little bit here.
So you mentioned
pseudo skeptics before,
and this is a good point.
Because I'll tell you
what I couldn't stand,
working in the news
and mainstream media is
if you wanted to
bring any of this up,
you had to trot on the one
and only famous skeptic.
He had a bad skeptic
across his forehead,
didn't matter what
the subject was.
He was going to basically
try to nullify anything
that you had to say.
So you call them
pseudo skeptics.
So let's talk about what real
healthy skepticism is versus
what some people that are
going to show people your film
will have to say.
>>DRASIN: Well,
healthy skepticism
is simply a matter of
looking into things.
We observe a new phenomenon.
Skepticism is part of the
scientific methodology.
You see something
happening, you look into it.
You don't necessarily accept
a particular conclusion
immediately.
I mean, that's what the
scientific method or process
is about.
You propose hypotheses.
You test them in an orderly way.
You don't want to be
fooling yourselves.
One way or another,
you don't want
to fall into belief or
disbelief which is just
another flavor of belief.
You want to go right down
the middle and stay with
the process what
so-called skeptics--
I call the cult of skepticism--
its position is that there are
areas which we cannot and must
not look into.
>>REGINA: Yes, gatekeepers.
>>DRASIN: Gatekeepers.
I think you can look at all
of these various influences
and movements, so
on as a religions.
Each belief system within
its own cohort is inviolable.
Some people get stuck
in it for a lifetime,
whether it's mainstream religion
or beliefs about anything else.
And I think it's imperative
now that people at least begin
to broaden their horizons
a bit and be willing to--
and the hardest part of it
is being willing to admit,
oh, I was wrong.
And not maybe necessarily
wrong, but maybe
my views were incomplete.
>>REGINA: That's right.
I simply didn't know.
Exactly.
>>DRASIN: Because some of what's
in the narrow box may be true.
It's just a question of widening
one's perspective and which
brings up for me the
question of language,
words, such as supernatural.
What's supernatural depends
on our definition of nature.
So who are we to say that nature
begins here and ends here,
and everything beyond that
is supernatural, right?
And as far as
paranormal is concerned,
how do we know what's normal
if we can't discuss it openly?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DRASIN: So it's an
arbitrary definition.
>>REGINA: So now you
have a definition
for people who tend to view
science in that way, which
is pseudo skeptics.
They're not a
classic true skeptic
that's going through a process.
They're just there
to deny and censor.
And I'm with you, 100%
And I've interviewed them,
and I'm done with that story.
And that's why I
love Gaia so much.
I don't have to bring them on
just because you say one thing.
>>DRASIN: You've been in
the trenches with that.
I respect that.
>>REGINA: I have
for a long time.
So one of the things
along the way--
and we're going to get
toward the films now--
is you came across the notion--
well, first of all, you
have your own experience
with communicating with a very
dear one on the other side.
And we'll talk about
that toward the end,
but you came across the
technology that's been
used to capture these voices.
And how did that come about
to give you the notion,
yes, we can make this
demonstrable to people now.
>>DRASIN: Well, I had no
idea about any of this
until the mid-1990s, when I was
actually living here in Boulder
and met a man named Mark Macy,
who lives in the area here.
And he had been involved in this
instrumental transcommunication
field for some years,
worked with groups here
and in Europe and South America,
who had been routinely doing
this communication
with the other side
through various kinds
of electronic devices.
At first, I was a
bit skeptical of it.
And say, well, has
the CIA been getting
into people's tape recorders
and things like that,
but very quickly got past
that phase of, perhaps,
excessive skepticism
there and began
to meet and communicate
with more people who
had been doing this
practice and finding
it absolutely fascinating.
>>REGINA: You want to take it
back where kind of to the '50s?
Because it really all began with
our ability to record things.
>>DRASIN: Right.
In the post-war time
of the late 1940s,
early 1950s, where
wartime industries
were being repurposed
for consumer production.
And one of the products
that came on the scene
was the audio tape recorder.
So Sunday preachers
and amateur musicians
could record their
priceless words and music
and play them back and
preserve them for all eternity.
And some folks began to
hear on their tapes, voices
that didn't belong there.
At first, they were faint, and
they were dismissed as well.
Maybe the machine's picking up
a radio station or something.
And that thing did
happen occasionally.
So at least, in
the United States,
this phenomenon was
pretty much dismissed.
In Europe, it was
taken more seriously.
It began, as far as
we know, with a man
named Friedrich
Jurgenson, who was
a well known Swedish
documentary filmmaker
and artist and so on--
well known in his time.
He went out one night to
record nocturnal bird sounds
for a documentary
he was producing.
And when he played
back the tape,
in the spaces
between the sounds,
he heard faint voices discussing
nocturnal bird sounds.
He thought, well, this
is quite a coincidence
that it's picking up a
radio station discussing
nocturnal bird sounds.
And he thought, no more
of it until he then
heard his deceased mother's
voice on one of his tapes,
calling him by his
childhood nickname, Friedl.
So at that point, he
threw up his hands
and said, OK, we have--
something's going
on here, and we have
to study this scientifically.
So for a number of
years, he experimented,
simply rolling the tape, asking
questions, leaving a pause,
asking more
questions, and so on.
And when he played
back the tapes,
there were responses
in these pauses.
He was then joined by a
Latvian researcher named
Konstantin Raudive, who worked
with Jurgenson for a time
and then went off and
did his own experiments.
And by the time he
passed on in 1974,
he had recorded, by all
accounts, between 60 and 70,000
of these voices.
He put out a phonograph
record at the time
that included quite a
number of his dialogues
with these voices.
It was quite fascinating.
You'll hear some
of this in a film.
>>REGINA: We're going to
hear it in just a minute now.
Yeah.
>>DRASIN: And then
when he passed on,
he started showing up in
his surviving colleagues'
communications.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DRASIN: And some of this is
documented in my film as well.
So there's this long
standing tradition.
I spent some time
with a young man named
Robert Vandenbroek in the
Netherlands back in 2014,
I think it was.
And he is able to produce photos
of the deceased on a cam--
You hand him your camera.
He'll point it at the wall
and knock off a few shots,
and it's highly likely
that photographs
of deceased individuals
and other things
will appear in those photos
that shouldn't be there.
And when I visited him
for about a week, set up
very rigid protocols to make
sure there was no hanky panky,
and in the photographic
experiments
we did, four anomalous shots
showed up, two of which
depicted Friedrich
Jurgenson in this.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
Oh, I love it.
So they're all
collaborating together.
>>DRASIN: So it appears.
>>REGINA: Why don't
we-- one of the films
you did is called
calling Earth, and that's
the one that's
dealing particularly
with this phenomena.
And so let's take a look
at that clip right now.
>>DRASIN: OK.
>> I think the fact that
we survive bodily death is
a scientific fact.
It's nothing to
do with religion.
>> One day, in the
summer of 2002,
Martha Copeland
of Lawrenceville,
Georgia played back a sound
recording she'd made earlier
that day and heard the voice
of her daughter, Kathy,
disciplining her dog.
>> Dija, go outside.
>> That wouldn't
have been so unusual,
except that six months earlier,
Kathy had died in an auto
accident.
>> One evening, to
my great surprise,
with a equipment I was
developing at the time,
I heard a voice.
>> I was really startled.
>> After the second
or third test,
I immediately got voices
saying, we are the dead.
We are alive.
We are able to
think and to speak.
>> A brief definition of the
electronic voice phenomenon,
or EVP as we call it, would
be the existence of voices
of unknown origin, which
appear in tape recordings,
particularly, but could also
be recorded in other ways.
>> Go to the river of light.
>> Time just passes here.
>> Once-earthly Jerry.
>> I can speak.
>> Ahh.
Yes, dear Monique.
>> Cathy's here.
I'm really saying this.
>> It was a voice
of my late father,
and he addressed me with my
nickname he used when I was
a little boy.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Here was this voice that
I recognized immediately
as my mother.
>> I miss you.
Rob, just missing you, pal.
>> I miss you very much.
>> Bra-den.
I know Braden.
>> Our Braden is beautiful.
>> Braden's not dead.
>> He's alive.
>> Let Braden talk to his mom.
>> Pick up the phone, mom.
>> Hi, mom.
>>REGINA: That last bit
there always gets me.
I mean, anyone
who's lost a child.
And this has to be
a mixed blessing
to be so close, to hear
their voice, yet, so far.
And so, let's talk about this
woman and her son, Braden,
a little bit.
And she continues to communicate
with him from what you say,
right?
>>DRASIN: Right.
Yes, Vicki Talbot is still
in touch with her son.
She works with a group
of mothers who've
lost their children, and they
post some of their recordings
online.
And this is a group
of mothers who
have been in touch with their
deceased kids and others
through this technique of
using electronic devices.
Vicki started with-- I think
this is the first she'd heard
from her son, Braden, was
through their answering
machine--
old-fashioned, tape
cassette answering machine.
That's when he said,
pick up the phone, mom.
>>REGINA: Oh.
>>DRASIN: And she had not been
in the habit of picking up
the phone, but of just letting
the answering machine take
the calls.
And she said afterwards, I
could have kicked myself for not
actually picking up the phone.
But since then, at the time,
they used tape cassettes.
Now she uses her iPad
and her iPhone as
do a number of her friends
who are doing this practice.
We don't know what
enhances it or inhibits it.
We know that an
emotional connection
with one on the other
side is a big help.
We don't know whether the
time of the year or the phase
of the moon or things
we know nothing about
affect this process, but it
works enough of the time,
that people who practice it have
had continuity of experience
going over periods of years.
>>REGINA: So I have
a question here.
When we think about
this, oftentimes,
when we think about automatic
writing or beings or entities
coming through and
speaking with us,
when it's someone who's
a person who's deceased,
we often think, oh, they haven't
made their full transition
to the other side.
So my question would be, from
what you've been able to glean,
the entities that do
come through like Braden
and talking to his mother, that
might be an arrangement where
he's just staying close
through his mother's life
to keep her comfortable.
But could it also be
that the entity actually
does make passage through to
other domains and dimensions
but can extend
part of themselves
as desired or needed
through to communicate?
>>DRASIN: I don't
think our language
and our concepts really
encompass what's going on here.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DRASIN: I think what you're
saying is probably true.
My understanding
from various sources
is that everyone's
experience of transition
is different, just as
our experience in life
is different.
It's highly individual, depends
on our command of the energies
of ourselves, energies of
the environment that we're
in, and so on, and the
energies of the barriers
that exist between
the different levels.
We don't have the
language of physics
that describes enough of that,
but we do know enough, just
on the level of empirical
science, of observation,
that these are--
number one, the
phenomenon exists.
There's no question about that.
That's the most important
thing to establish.
Stuff's going on, right?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DRASIN: And understanding
the mechanism of it,
I think-- and the mechanisms
of it will come in due course.
Meanwhile, I think the
most important thing
is for those who practice
it to practice it,
to cultivate the personal
habits and maybe even
condition the
energetic environment
by doing it so that
the environment slowly
shifts its capacity to be more
transparent between levels.
I'm struggling for language.
>>REGINA: I understand
because it's hard.
You can't really explain because
you're not on the other side.
But if you were to maybe
give a little bit of advice
to someone who's lost
someone, that they would love
to be able to finish up
something with or hear from,
simply have the comfort of
knowing they still exist, how
would you lay that foundation?
I know you're just starting
to touch into that.
How would you lay a foundation
for that kind of communication?
Would you just put your
intention and love out and say,
can we communicate through
maybe my iPad or my cell
phone or my computer,
or is that more random?
>>DRASIN: I wish
I could give you
a definitive answer to that.
>>REGINA: We just have to
try and see what happens.
>>DRASIN: I think we're
at the stage where
we have to throw everything
at the metaphysical wall
and see what sticks.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DRASIN: And in
doing so, I imagine
that new avenues
of communication
will also open up, in
addition to those that we're
familiar with and those
that have been practiced
by people who maybe we
have no awareness of
may come to the fore.
>>REGINA: And just some of the
basic old-fashioned connecting
with your own higher self
and their higher self.
>>DRASIN: I had a visit from my
deceased father some years ago
that was preceded by events
in my actual life over
the preceding week, that I
didn't understand until I went
to sleep one night, and
there was my dad, looking--
he died in his 90s,
and he was looking
like he was in his middle 30s.
And my first thought--
and he was really
hair slicked back and
had this ruddy suntan.
And my first thought was, oh,
he's overdone his astral body.
>>REGINA: No, it's just the way
you relate to feeling strong.
>>DRASIN: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DRASIN: And we had a
wonderful short dialogue.
And part of it was,
love to see you.
We'll see you again.
Eventually, I said, I know dad.
Wonderful.
But to me, the evidential
part was what preceded.
The events took place over
a period of five days,
without getting into a lot
of detail, that culminated
in this visit in a short dream.
And it was unique.
I had not had this
type of experience
before with my late
partner, Jane Kimbro, who
passed in 2007.
I've had communications
of other kinds.
Sense of her almost physical
presence standing next to me,
couldn't see her with my
eyes, but she was there.
I don't know how to express
this other than to say,
there she was.
She also switched on
a clock radio at night
and surprised the
Dickens out of me.
>>REGINA: There are
all kinds of hijinks.
Right after my dad
died, six days later,
I was here doing
this job at Gaia,
and he followed me
into the studio.
And he was right
where you are sitting,
but up a little higher
and just thrilled to see
what I do for a living.
Because he didn't really--
he was in his 90s.
He didn't fully understand it.
And so, there are
all these ways.
But the importance of what
you're doing with these films
is for people who have
a hard time getting
their mind around it is to
give them proof positive.
So now, let's go to
a clip from "Scole.
The Afterlife Experiment."
And this went on for--
how many years was
this experiment?
>>DRASIN: Five years.
>>REGINA: Five years.
>>DRASIN: 500 sessions.
>>REGINA: 500 sessions
in Scole, England.
>>DRASIN: Scole, England it's
a small town, about a half hour
Northeast of Cambridge.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DRASIN: And this took place
between about 1994 and 1999,
that period of
time, 500 sessions.
For two years,
the experiment was
observed by three properly
skeptical investigators.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DRASIN: Anyway, you'll
see it all in the film.
>>REGINA: OK, let's take a look.
I love it.
>> The Scole Experiment was
reported in contemporary
magazine articles, two books,
a 400-page scientific report,
and a full length
documentary film.
Its successes included
nearly 1,000 hours
of direct communication
through the mediums
and an impressive variety of
intriguing physical phenomena,
such as tiny animated lights
that flew around the room.
The Scole group
also witnessed what
they claim to be the spontaneous
appearance of physical objects.
Perhaps the most
astonishing of these objects
were these newspapers, which
arrived in mint condition,
despite having been
published in the 1940s.
>> We took it to the leading
research station in the world
on paper and printing, and
it was absolutely clear from
their report that this was a
genuine article which appeared
50 years after the event, and
no one has been able to explain
how it got there.
In other sessions,
a video camera
loaded with brand
new blank tapes
and switched on
in a darkened room
produced an amazing series
of colorful abstract frames.
The tapes also contained
unexplained light phenomena
and enigmatic faces.
A conventional
35-millimeter film camera
placed on the table
in their darkened room
initially produced a series
of black and white images
that the Scole
group were told were
faithful duplicates of existing
photographs from around
the world.
>> Some were photos of
existing photos, and they said,
initially, that was easier for
them to do before they went
on to photos that
had never existed.
>> Continuing photographic
experiments using isolated
rolls of film and no camera
were carefully controlled
by the independent
investigators.
>> We would buy
the film ourselves.
We would load it into a box.
The box was held in the
hands of the investigators
so that no one could get at it.
And then, immediately
afterwards,
we would take it out
of the box ourselves
so that no one else touched it
and then develop it ourselves
in a special machine.
>> To everyone's surprise,
these films revealed a stunning
variety of content.
This included whimsical
drawings and symbols, diagrams,
writings, and poetry
in multiple languages,
as well as portraits
and signatures
of known individuals.
>>REGINA: OK, so
that's irrefutable.
I just found it fascinating--
I mean, so much of it,
but also the notion of you
have film that's in containers
still and then being developed
having these images on them.
So I think we don't have to
argue the point something's
happening on the
other side anymore.
>>DRASIN: I'm especially
intrigued with the films
because, of course, the raw
film is rolled up, right?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DRASIN: So there's got to be
a very different relationship
between the other side
and physical space.
>>REGINA: Yes.
It's hard for us to imagine how
they're able to energetically
imprint in this way.
>>DRASIN: I find it
entertaining, mind-blowing,
fascinating.
>>REGINA: I find it
all of the above, too.
So you still
communicate with Jane?
>>DRASIN: I do.
Though, in recent years, it's
been through a team of mediums
that I work with.
>>REGINA: OK.
And so, what is her position?
I mean, because this
has been since 2007,
so it's been quite
a few years now.
Why is she continuing to
come through and speak
with all of you?
>>DRASIN: Well, she
comes through, as well
as some other deceased
friends of mine,
through this team of
mediums that I work with.
And to me, the most
fascinating thing
is to get a sense of
the different phases
that folks go through
after they pass.
Again, each one is
individual, but there
are definite differences in
the flavor of their presence,
where they're coming
from, their language,
where words are
involved, and so on,
how they express themselves.
One of the most fascinating,
heartbreaking but fascinating
things to me, was I was
with Jane when she passed.
And she left her body about 10
hours before the body expired.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DRASIN: And the
difference was stark,
and it taught me so much.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DRASIN: When she left, the
body was like an automaton.
>>REGINA: It's like clay.
That's what happened
with my mother.
>>DRASIN: It still had
its primitive reactions
and response--
>>REGINA: Breathing.
>>DRASIN: --breathing, and
I could ask a question,
but the response was blunt.
Like, uh, that's sort of thing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DRASIN: So something
was really different.
I really got that she
was no longer there.
And the first time that
I had the opportunity
to speak with her I was
actually on the phone
with one of my medium friends.
And she says, oh, Jane is here.
I'll just hear her
words, and I'll
translate and let you
know what she says,
whereupon, Jane pushes
the medium out of the way.
And I'm talking to
Jane on the phone.
>>REGINA: Oh, I love it.
You could hear her
clearly, too, right?
Because some of them,
it's a little bit garbled.
>>DRASIN: This is just coming
through the medium's own voice.
>>REGINA: I see.
>>DRASIN: So it was perfect.
>>DRASIN: Oh, yeah, of course.
OK, but it was a two
way conversation,
as if she were there on
the other end of the phone.
And one of the
first things I asked
her was, it was my impression
that you left your body
before the body expired.
And she says, yes,
that's absolutely true.
I said, why.?
And she said, because
I couldn't stand to see
you see me in that condition.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
She didn't want to be
witness to it anymore.
>>DRASIN: And that was one
of many brief but intense
opportunity to discuss.
It, to me, was a
priceless experience.
>>REGINA: It was a gift.
Well, because we're
about out of time now,
and I highly encourage
people to watch these films,
now they can find
one on Vimeo, right?
>>DRASIN: Being found
in both on Vimeo.
>>REGINA: Both on Vimeo.
YouTube?
Anything on YouTube?
>>DRASIN: The older version
of "The Scole" movie,
which was called "The Afterlife
Experiments" is on YouTube.
>>REGINA: But the
upgraded new on--
>>DRASIN: The updated, what
we call the director's cut,
is on Vimeo.
>>REGINA: Vimeo.
So "Calling Earth" and "Scole.
The Afterlife Experiment"
are both on Vimeo.
>>DRASIN: Right.
>>REGINA: And they're free.
>>DRASIN: They're free.
>>REGINA: That's
absolutely fabulous.
>>DRASIN: And they run
about an hour and a half.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And before we go,
you had in your book,
and I just have to put it in
because I love it so much.
I took the quote from your book.
"Whoever undertakes
to set himself up
as judge of truth
and knowledge is
shipwrecked by the laughter
of the gods," Albert Einstein.
Because till the end, he
remained open minded to truth.
Whatever truth would like
to show itself to him.
>>DRASIN: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Thank you.
Any final thoughts
before we go, Dan?
>>DRASIN: Well,
speaking of truth,
I think truth is
a moving target.
Science is open-ended.
It's a matter of continually
unfolding discovery,
and I think Einstein got that.
>>REGINA: I think he
definitely got it.
He lived it.
Dan, thank you so
much, and thank you
for making these
beautiful films, which
I know our audience is going
to be sharing with their loved
ones, who might have questions
about this phenomenon,
whether afterlife exists or not.
>>DRASIN: Thank you
so much, Regina.
>>REGINA: Again, for a
succinct and clear argument
for consciousness extending
not only beyond life,
but as the foundation
of everything,
pick up a copy of Dan's book,
a new science of the afterlife.
For more information on
Dan's films and books,
you can go to dandrasin.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]